.TH Shell 3 "12 March 2021" "1.0" "Simple Shell Manual"

.SH NAME
.B Simple Shell - simple Unix tool that interprets commands in c.

.SH SYNOPSIS
simple_shell [command] [file]
It allows users to enter commands on the command line interface, interpreting the commands executed by these.

.SH DESCRIPTION

It is a command interpreter that runs in a text mode window, and allows the user to enter commands.
The basic function of this command interpreter will be to request a command or program, execute it and ask for
another one.
executing one line at a time. Each line is tokenized into a set of words separated by spaces or others
characters with special meaning. The commands or programs will be executed either by putting the absolute path
or without it. Any text separated by a single space is considered an argument.

The are instructions represented in command words separated by space, which the user provides from the line
of orders. to enter a command, you must first enter the name of the command followed by the arguments
or executable flags of this command.

Lines on the shell can be read interactively from standard output. It can also be read non-interactively where
you can pipe the file. It is designed so that you can act like bash. However, it doesn't handle certain bash features.
as options.

Shell mode can be divided into interactive mode and non-interactive mode.Interactive mode interacts with the
user from standard output to complete program execution, this process is simply any shell process you use to type
commands and get results of those commands.
In non-interactive mode, the program can be run to completion without interacting with the user.

.SH Arguments
From input, the first argument is assumed to be an executable command file. It follows the parameters taken by
that particular command.

.B hsh
hsh is the executable that interprets the command entered. With this option it is executed, to exit write"exit",
or control "D" for the case of interactive mode. exit state returns with the state of the previous command.

.SH INTERACTIVE MODE EXAMPLE
.PP
.PP
$ ./hsh
.PP
##---> /bin/ls
.PP
hsh main.c shell.c interpreter.c builtins.c
.PP
##---> exit
.PP
$
.PP
.PP
.SH NON-INTERACTIVE MODE EXAMPLE
.PP
.PP
$ echo "/bin/ls" | ./hsh
.PP
.PP
hsh main.c shell.c interpreter.c builtins.c
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The environment is an area that the shell creates each time you start a session that contains variables
that define the properties of the system, the environment A way that the shell keeps track of all your
settings and details and are represented in this format
.B KEY=value1:value2:...
.
.SH BUILTIN COMMANDS
The built-in commands are contained within the shell itself. When the name of a built-in command is used as
the first word of a simple command, the shell executes the command directly, without invoking another program.
with built-in output, returns an outputs status of 0 running successfully. On failure, returns 126 when the
invoked command cannot be executed. and 127 in case the command is not found.
The following are built-in commands run in the shell as builtint

.B env

displays a list of the environment variables and runs another program with the modified
environment variables

.B exit

Exits the shell

.SH BUGS
No known bugs


.SH AUTHORS
.B Dania Puertas, Alexander Cardona
